But Sunday, last Sunday, and get stuff from all...
See, we have a veterinarian that's a good
ophthalmologist. He's an ophthalmologist
specialist. So we have quite a few... Last July. We
have a good overall picture of specialization. We
have a radiologist. We have some people I get
literature from. Radiologists. You know, one of
the big problems is that and I don't know the answer
to it totally, is that veterinarians have had to,
maybe by necessity, but also probably because of
their own conservative nature and design, be
their own PR. And so it's just like I've been on the
public relation committees of the local
association and the state association. for on and
off for the last 25 years and they get together and
they have lots of good ideas but they don't really
know you know it's like a lawyer trying to defend
himself they really don't know what they're doing
you know if really a lot of stuff could be gotten in
the media both electronic media and print media if
but you've got to you can't just go down and say look
we'd like to have something on about veterinary
medicine or send them a letter we'd like to have
something on about veterinary medicine You've
got to go down there and make a presentation.
Here's what we can give you. Here are the subjects.
Here's the guy that's going to present it. Tom, you
know what Bernie and I used to say? Excuse me,
Bernie. We told each other this a dozen times, one
of my large animal exporters. We'd say, you idiot,
you're too busy working to be a good businessman.
Well, that's true. And that's it. Yeah. You really
are. That's exactly right. James Herriot's done
more for veterinary public relations and all the
organized veterinary societies since the eons of
time. That's right. He really has. But you know,
your experience on that TV station is really a good
indicator because people love animals and they
like people who like animals. And all you need to do
is make people know you're out there. Quite
frankly, if I wanted to, I could be on television at
least once a month or twice a month. Because I've
got probably 150 two-minute television
vignettes that I've written and done. And I have
subject material and all that. I tried to get the
state association several years ago. I told them
that if they would hire somebody to take all my
television tapes and radio tapes and to put them
together and edit them and then with a list of
subject material, then they could send that out to
local veterinary associations and say, here's a
how-to kit to approach your media. You can look at
these, see how your formats are, have a whole bunch
of subject material, and if they went to their
local television or radio station and said, look,
we'd like to get this on, here's a whole bunch of
subjects that our people can talk about. And it
would come under the Animal Public Service. Jim
Humphreys did this. Mm-hmm. Yeah, and he was very
successful in Dallas. Well, we're approaching
it, but like I say, we have a long ways to go. We need
to hang. Every time we get an opportunity, Like I
was talking about, to get our foot in the door or to
do this, it helps to spend their money. But
veterinarians get together and they get all
pumped up and say, oh, we can do this. And it's like
Philip Martin with the little article in the
paper. He loses his mind trying to get people,
veterinarians, to contribute. It's in there
every day. And finally, I suggest that he came and
got all my radio tapes because people call and ask
questions. I said, this will certainly give you
all the questions you ever want to write about. I'm
trying to write a book. Are you? But to get
veterinarians to do this, you know, to get
veterinarians to do this, I mean, you get somebody
pumped up, somebody writes one or two, and then
they forget about it, and they go on, and then the
whole movement just kind of sags and dies, you
know. I have some experiences, I think. I lived in
Mexico for years. I've done zoo work, exotic work,
ranch work. I have 50 articles, pictures, notes of
true animal adventure experiences. Some of them
are real comical. I write very factual articles. I
have some with me. I have a lot of them that hold
pictures. I've written UTSA Press, A&M Press,
sent them two or three articles that I've finished
that are true adventure. But I write factual, you
know. Yeah. Joe Blow or Capstick could write them
up and make them tremendously interesting. Yeah.
I hope you'll pass a few of those along. Well, I tell
you, I was wondering, I was just thinking, I said, I
don't know if this gentleman is interested in, you
know, but... No, I want some good stories, good
videos. Well, I have some stuff. I know it's
interesting because I get in a party some days and
get talking to somebody, and we talk for an hour.
But I have written and rewritten and rewritten,
and I have two or three finished. I thought a writer
just wrote it one time, and that was it. That's it. I
think all of us, if we've read Harriet's books, and
I know I did when I was reading his books. I found
myself, and I started off as a large animal,
interested in large animals in a small Indiana
town. You know, I was out one time when I was, in
fact, I was a senior student that's been there and
left town, and I kind of looked after his practice
while he was gone. He was going to be gone two weeks,
and I had a call, and, you know, first calf, heifer
calving, and out in the crop shed in the middle of
the night, and the old farmer told me, he said,
well, I think you can do it, you know, and I, I was
there struggling trying to get that calf turned
around. I just finished reading that. Yeah, yeah,
and he was standing there saying, well, Dr. Turner
do this, well, Dr. Turner, I mean, it was exactly
like that. He had that calf on there. I just
finished reading that story. Yeah, yeah, yeah. My
wife has every one of the English veterinarians,
and I have a book signed by one of my clients, and
I've read most of them. And I said, man, I've been
that route. Yeah, we've all been there. We've all
been there. If we've done a mixed practice or done
any, they have experiences in small animals. Oh,
yeah. But the thing about it, we're all too busy
working to put it down. And a lot of us can't write.
And writing like that is a true talent. And I can't
lie, I'm too factual. He's done such a wonderful
job of it. He really has. You know, if everybody
said, well, you know, I bet if you'd have written
down all the things that happened, you could have
written a book like that. And I said, well, I could
have written down all those things, but I probably
could not have written a book like that. Couldn't
have written a book like that. Well, I got started
in Mexico when I was down there and had a lot of time.
And I was out running around in a Jeep or an airplane
or riding hard back in the mountains. And so I took a
lot of pictures when I was on foot in the mountains.
And that's what really got me to thinking in 1948
through 51 when I was down there. And I still have
stuff from then on. Plus, every day now, I go on a
night call and it's really an experience. I said,
you know, that'd make good article, if I could
write it up for you. So that's why I have so many that
are, you know. We sent out that little flyer in the
newsletter asking people to send in this kind of
thing. I don't know if we'll get much response. You
know, speaking of that, you talk about things like
that. One of the funniest things that ever
happened to me was back when I started doing the zoo
work and Fred Olin, I'm sorry, where I am. Fred was
there, and he came down here from Illinois, and he
went to work for me. And I was at Southwest Research
and doing the zoo work, and only spent a very
limited time in my practice and everything. And so
he would cover for me. And he, Fred, subsequently
went back to medical school, and he's an
orthopedic surgeon, a human orthopedic surgeon.
But I was at a party one night. And it was about, I
think, probably 12, between 12 and 1 o'clock in the
morning. And it was a formal party, you know, the
tux and everything. And I got this call from the
answering service. And the county answering
service was laughing. And she said, well, Dr.
Weiss, she said, I've got a call. And the guy's at a
phone booth. And he says he has a constipated
elephant. And she said, I questioned him. And he
said, it's real. He wasn't pulling a joke or
anything else. And so I said, good grief. I said,
good grief. And so I took the number. And I thought,
Jesus, I don't want to have to leave this party. And
so I called Fred and woke him up. And I said, Fred,
I've got this call. And I said, it's kind of a
specialized call. And I could only think of one
veterinarian in the whole world who's qualified
to take it. And that's you. And he said, oh, come on.
What is it? What is it? And I said, well, just call
this number. I can't tell you what it's about. But
just call this number. And I said, the guy's
waiting at a phone booth and everything. And it is
an emergency. And so the phone went on back to the
party. We got home about 2 or 2.30. 4.30 in the
morning, my phone rang. And I picked it up, and he
said, biggest goddamn elephant I ever saw. And it
was a little circus, was wintering out here in the
south side of town, and it was this big, this old
elephant, and he was down, and Fred gave him an
enema with a garden hose. and gave him a great big
shot of one of those injectable laxatives. I can't
even think of the name of it. Yeah. Stiglin. That is
a story. That was a funny one. Oh, bubba hubba. What
is it, a regal? Well, I use it. I grow it down, and you
use Stiglin. It's a little stronger. And you use
Copan, which is mild. Yeah, but back then, it was
probably... I don't even remember what it was.
There haven't been many adventures with a
constipated elephant. No, that was it. We still
laugh about that. Fred probably never treated
that one before, Eddie. Well, what do you think?
Good to see you. Well, I want to get with you. Yes,
sir. You know, when you're convenient. Because
I've got, this is since 1948. And I have stuff that I
went up to Kerrville to an ostrich farm the other
day. And a lot of these things just... Like we say,
we all have them. You get in some crazy things in
exotics. One thing, at least you're saving it in
your conscience. The main thing is, especially,
you know, I think you get more out in a different
environment at farms and ranches and dairies than
you do in your clinic. Because in a clinic, you're
in the same place. So that's why I think they're
more interesting if you're in different
environments and different farms and different,
everything, environment and everything. But
anyway, we all have them. Everybody that's in
practice has them. I think so. It's just a matter of
writing them up properly. So are the people you've
ever contacted. Oh, the people. Doc Anderson.
You've been here for Doc Anderson? Yes. I've got an
article on her. I started years ago. Is she still
alive? I don't know, she's too mean to lie. We could
have let you talk a little bit. No, no, I'm not here
to talk. Listen, absolutely. What I would like to
do, but I didn't want to stop the conversation
because that's the kind of stuff I was really after
is what you were talking about. But let's, if you
will, go back and let me ask each of you to sort of
identify yourself, explain a little bit about
your background, how you got into veterinary
medicine, a little biographical sketch, if you
will. And then I'd like to sort of focus on your area
of expertise, and if you will, each of you kind of
add to it, because this is what makes this kind of an
interview work, is that people interrelate and
ask questions of each other. So don't feel like
you're just listening to me and whoever's
talking. But Tom, you now are focusing primarily
birds right here well i'll do general small animal
work yeah and uh i want to follow that up and then uh
elder or an elder an elder i'd like to talk to you
about how you got into medical medicine and then
you were one of the early women licensed
practitioners in texas i believe i'd like to
follow up on that and then all of us talk a little bit
about women in the practice but that's clearly one
of the changing profiles first one around here I
took the State Board with her at 48. Now there's a
class at A&M, I assume you know, the last two years,
over half girls. Oh, it's been longer than that.
It's been longer than that, because Archie
Flowers, the year that Barbara Lewis was up there,
was over 50. You're looking at a steep change in the
whole profile of the profession. Yeah, the most
dramatic of which I can identify with when we go to
seminars, Because there used to not be a line at all
in the ladies' room. It's the truth. But you know,
when I first started teaching at A&M in 1969, I
still remember my first class. I'd come over from
South Louisiana. And I had 130 men in that class,
one woman, And I swear I believe 30 or 40 of those men
were asleep. They were all in uniform. It was 8
o'clock class. And I'm like, gosh, what have I
gotten into? And I didn't know what the problem
was. I hadn't even started lecturing yet. So I knew
my lecture wasn't that bad. And they were asleep.
Well, they'd been out, you know, doing their
thing. Well, now it's the Texas Hall of Fame. Yeah.
That's right. They're doing that. And then,
Mason, you're... Well, I've done strictly large
animal work. That's all I ever did. Okay, let's
talk about that. But you're doing more zoo type?
That's what I really like, and that's what I'm
doing most of the time is exotic zoo ranch type
animals. So let's talk about that. So each of you
represented in a way a special niche in the whole
I'm sure we're all very opinionated. That's good,
too. You know I am. Well, I know she is. She knows I
am. Tom does. We all are. So who wants to kick off
with a sort of a personal sketch now? Chris, I'm Dr.
Tom Weiss, and I started, I graduated in 1957 from
Michigan State University. I grew up in a small
rural town in Indiana, Wabash, Indiana, and was
interested primarily when I was in veterinary
school in doing large animal or farm practice. Why
did you get into vet practice? Well, I worked for a
cousin on his farm during the summertime, and then
a close personal friend of my parents was a
veterinarian, and so I started working for him
some part-time on weekends as a kid. and all of a
sudden decided, you know, gosh, this is what I want
to be, a veterinarian, and went on to veterinary
school, and fortunately picked something that I
was loved and was well adapted to and did well at.
And so when I graduated, I practiced in a small
animal practice in Fort Wayne, Indiana, for
several months, and then went in the Air Force,
applied for a commission in the Air Force. It was
either that or get drafted back then. And so I got
commissioned in the Air Force and was stationed
here in San Antonio at Kelly Air Force Base.
Everybody used to ask me, you know, what in the
world is a veterinarian doing in the Air Force? You
know, I said, well, he castrates jets. But I fell in
love with San Antonio at that time and also with a
Texas gal and wanted to really stay here. And when I
got out of the Air Force, why? Some of the local
veterinarians, I used to have the advantage of
inspecting about 50 food establishments in San
Antonio once a month that supplied food to the
base. And so I would go out on these inspections,
and I'd stop by veterinary hospitals and get to
know veterinarians. And pretty soon, you know,
before I got out of the Air Force, I think I knew
almost all of the practitioners in San Antonio,
you know, personally. And so I had a lot of
encouragement to stay here, along with my wife,
and wanted to. And so I took the Texas boards. And
I've been here ever since. So my interest. Is there
any difficulty in an outsider coming in and taking
the Texas boards and getting your license ? It's
tough. I was lucky. In those days, Texas and
Michigan had reciprocation. And so all I had to do
was to take the practical part of the examination.
I didn't have to take the written part of the exam
and everything. And since I had a Michigan
license, it was a little easier for me at that
point. And so I went into practice with an older
veterinarian who's now dead, Dr. Walter Lawrence
in San Antonio. And you asked me about how I got
involved with birds. And of course, we were.
talking about that I kinda felt that that was the
time when veterinary medicine was really losing
poultry practice and there was a lot of discussion
in the profession editorials and how could we save
this part of veterinary practice and it was
primarily because veterinarians really weren't
interested in poultry practice and didn't want to
get involved and so I saw a couple of parakeets and
people called me and I said well you know, they
brought them in, and they'd been to the pet shop,
and the pet shop had given them medicine and told
them all this stuff about how to treat them, and I
thought to myself, you know, the same thing's
going to happen with this. Pets that people buy at
pet shops, monkeys and birds and all these little
animals, guinea pigs and hamsters and things like
that, if veterinarians don't treat them, why,
pretty soon, they're going to, you know, that part
of practice, whatever it might be, they're going
to lose because we're certainly more qualified to
do that than some yo-yo in a pet shop. And even
though I didn't know anything about these
animals, we didn't get anything in veterinary
school about them, I just tried to apply my
knowledge of medicine to a species that I really
didn't know a whole lot about. And so I started
doing it and pretty soon the reputation spread
around and veterinarians would get one of their
clients a call and they had a sick parakeet or a sick
parrot or a sick hamster or guinea pig or whatever
it might be. Well, they'd say, well, we don't treat
those, but call Tom Weiss. He treats them. So
pretty soon it began to become a part of my
practice. And, of course, in caged birds
particularly, I was just down here just stumbling
along trying to do the best I could. That whole part
of veterinary practice has gone through a
tremendous evolution in about the last eight or
nine years. And I think it was about eight years
ago, there were 40 veterinarians, myself
included, that met for the first time in
Kalamazoo, Michigan. And these were guys who were
interested in cage birds, treating cage birds.
And a classmate of mine in Michigan, Ron Spink,
knew that I did this, and so he contacted me, and Ron
was the one who contacted veterinarians
throughout the country. And we formed an
organization called the American Association of
Avian Veterinarians. And now it has over, I think,
1,200 or 1,300 members worldwide. It's the
fastest-growing specialty association in
veterinary medicine. And it has piqued a
tremendous amount of interest in cave bird
medicine. It's stimulated research and sharing
of information. It was a wonderful experience for
me just to get together with other veterinarians
who treated these birds and share our own clinical
experiences and everything. And they now have a
journal. And we just had a meeting, the
international meeting, in Houston last
September. And there were probably 500 to 600
veterinarians there from all over the world. and
papers being presented. And of course, caged
birds have become tremendously popular now as
pets. Back when I was the only one in this whole area
of Texas that would even look at one and treat it, I
didn't see nearly as many as I see today. And back
then, you could buy a parrot for $100 or $150. Now
they run from $300 to $8,000 for a hyacinth macaw. I
didn't see nearly as many of them as I do today. And
today I have competition. There are many other
veterinarians now who are treating birds. Are
they getting training now? They're getting, yes.
In fact, yes. I was about, I think, six or seven
years ago, got an appointment to the faculty at A&M
as an adjunct professor and went up and lectured
three or four times a year on caged bird medicine to
the third year class. And now A&M is really in the
forefront of this whole thing. Mr. Richard
Schubot from Florida, a very wealthy man who's
really interested in these birds, and their
future donated a million dollars to the
veterinary school at A&M to establish a chair in
caged bird medicine in the Department of
Microbiology. the school, I think, matched that.
So it's a $2 million chair, which is one of the more
endowed chairs or maybe the most endowed chair in
the university. And they established the Shoebot
Avian Disease Center. And Dr. David Graham, who's
an internationally recognized avian or caged
bird pathologist, is now there and heading up
that. And the emphasis in teaching now is shifted
away from poultry medicine to caged bird
medicine. Dr. Tizard, who's the head of the
Department of Microbiology, and I had a long
discussion about it, and he said, well, you know,
he said there are probably eight veterinarians in
the state of Texas involved in poultry medicine,
and six of those eight are on the staff of the
university. And we have an obligation to support
the poultry industry of the state, but we do that
with diagnostic medicine and those kinds of
things. He said, we feel that our teaching
emphasis should be on what the students are going
to see when they get out there and practice, and
that's Kate's word. And they're in another
university in the country, or veterinary school
in the country, that has gone to that extent to
dedicate their teaching programs to Kate's word
medicine. But to get back to my background, then I
took a job. I left and started my own practice on
Broadway. In fact, Dr. Tremere, as we talked
about, and Saunders and Larson really helped me
get started. I really couldn't have done it
without them. And right around the corner from
them, they leased the old Broadway Animal
Hospital to me and had equipment in it and cages and
everything. In fact, Wallace moved over and
started running this large animal practice out of
there, too. And we shared the old Broadway Animal
Hospital. And then I took a job. Again, I didn't
literally have a pot to pee in or a window to throw it
out. And so I took a job part time as a veterinarian,
first veterinarian on the staff at Southwest
Foundation for research and education for the big
primate colonies. Yeah, I think you have a friend
who worked out there. Yeah. I was the first
veterinarian that they'd ever had on their staff.
They'd just established their big baboon colony.
And I took a job there part time. Well, it started
two hours a day, gradually grew to four hours a day,
and then to a full-time staff position, I kept my
veterinary practice. And at that time, that's
when I hired Dr. Olin, who is now the orthopedic
surgeon that had the elephant episode. And about
that time, Fred Stark, who was the director of the
zoo, came to me. and asked me if I would do the zoo
work, too. And that was a part-time position. So
that was another chance to pick up another $300,
$400 a month. And so I took that job, too. I used to
drive 150 miles a day and never got out of the city. I
would go to my office at 7 o'clock in the morning I'd
leave there at about 8 and go to Southwest
Research. I'd leave there at 11 and go to the zoo.
I'd leave the zoo at 1, go back to Southwest
Research, leave there at 4.30 and go back to my
practice. So you started all this very early on in
your practice. Yes, that's right. And so I was the
zoo veterinarian for about four and a half years,
and then Stubby came on and took over the zoo work at
that time. And shortly after that, then I left
Southwest Research and went back to my practice
full time. So from that very beginning, I've
always treated what we call exotic pets. Those are
pets other than dogs and cats. And exotic practice
was a lot different in those days. In fact, a small
percentage of it was caged birds, quite frankly.
We saw a lot of ocelots. and surveil cats and jungle
cats, margay cats, all these exotic cats that were
being imported. We saw monkeys, lots of pet
monkeys. And a lot of other indigenous wild
animals. It wasn't unusual then for people to keep
raccoons and skunks as pets and everything. So we
saw a lot of wild animals as pets. And then I used to
almost hate to see the spring come because when all
the baby birds started coming out of the nests and
stuff, and people would find this little bird in
their yard, and they'd call their veterinarian
and say, oh, we don't treat birds. Call Tom Weiss.
And boy, my phone would just ring off the wall. I
mean, they would just get deluged with it. Now,
most of those imported wild animals that people
would try to keep as pets are now on an endangered
species list. And so we seldom see pet monkeys
anymore. We don't see any of the exotic cats except
the big cats that breed well in captivity, cougars
and jaguars and lions and tigers. And there are
guys breeding those and selling them to people as
pets and that type of thing. So now almost I would
say that 80% to 85% of my exotic pet practice are
caged birds. And we see, and I see in my practice, 20
to 30 birds a day. Is that right? We do, in fact, we
have a bacteriology set up in the hospital, and we
average about 80 to 100 cultures a month. And
virtually all those, or 90% of those, are in birds.
Are there some recent really strong importation
restraints? Yes, and that's happening now in
birds. Many, in fact, almost all the macaws except
the blue and gold now are on threatened or
endangered species lists. And many of the other
species, and we're going to see the very same thing
happen, that the importation of these larger
cytosine birds is just going to dry up. And so we're
going to have to depend on domestic production.
With the advent of surgical sexing, you know, most
of these birds are not sexually dimorphic. You
can't tell the male from the female. And with the
advent of a laparoscope about eight or nine years
ago, why, veterinarians went in and started
surgically sexing these birds. And up until that
time, the success of domestic breeding was just
very, very poor, scanty at best. Aviculturists
were lucky when they happened to get a pair that
would breed in captivity or get them paired up
right. Now, why the success is tremendous. We're
seeing more and more domestic... Yes, yes. More
and more... I have one client who probably raises
200 domestically born larger citizen birds a
year. And so hopefully there are enough of these
birds breeding in captivity that we're going to be
able to maybe meet the demand with domestic
production. So far, we can't. And we're a ways away
from doing that. Do you have any ostrich on here?
No. In fact, I get ostrich calls just like Stubby
was talking about, why I refer them to him. Mainly
because I can't really be out of my office. I'm just
too busy to go out. That's a large animal practice,
isn't it? It really is. And I can't go out on a call to
do these. I've had numbers of young ones brought
into the hospital. And we've done some orthopedic
procedures. some other things from time to time.
But, of course, they've become very popular now.
They're in vogue. And so Stubby's going to make his
fame and fortune on his ostrich practice. Okay,
nobody knows anything about it. How about the
llamas? Well, they're in the same boat right now.
That's right. Well, you know, there's very
little. The problem you get into, the challenges
you get into in exotic pet practice are relative to
the fact that there's very little basic research
done on these animals. There's just not any money
out there to fund research. And so you really have
to apply your knowledge and a little bit of your
knowledge in maybe anatomy and physiology of a
life-type species. And then a little bit of, for
instance, right now in birds, almost all of our
antibiotic dosages are extrapolated from dogs,
cats, and people. No, we're using antibiotics.
They don't use the chickens. And in fact, the
birds' predominant bacterial problems in birds
are gram-negative infections. And they're, I
think, basically a product of these birds being in
captivity and being exposed to human and
carnivore type of environments. These are
coliform organisms that are normal in our
gastrointestinal tract. They've sampled wild
populations of birds and they seldom ever find a
gram-negative bug in their gastrointestinal
tract. And yet we deal with the predominant
problem with this in these birds in captivity. And
so we're using antibiotics like amikacin and
gentamicin and piperacillin and tricarcillin
and the third generation cephalosporins because
these are bacteria that are very antibiotic
resistant. And so all of our dosages have been
extrapolated down from human dosages on a weight
basis. And there's a lot of controversy now
because of the rapid metabolism of the bird, how
frequently they should be given to maintain
adequate blood levels. And we hope there's a guy in
North Carolina, Dr. Kevin Flammer, now that has
some funding, and he's doing some blood level
studies in different antibiotics in these birds,
in different species, and hopefully we're going
to have some very meaningful information on what
we should be giving them. Most of it is trial and
error and experience, and we seem to get results at
certain levels and things. So this is the kind of
thing that we face. And the same thing with Stubby,
when he goes out here to treat an ostrich or a llama
or or a nigyle antelope or whatever. He has to rely
on knowledge, on clinical knowledge that has been
shared among zoo veterinarians and everything
and is gleaned out of maybe worldwide literature.
But there's so many big gaps in this that a lot of
stuff is empirical. It's been based upon clinical
trials. Some guy treated a case and wrote it up and
published it in a zoo journal or something of that
nature. It's not been controlled, definitive
experiments. Same way in nutrition. And a lot of
our problems in exotic species, birds included,
but all these others, are nutritional problems
and management problems because we really lack
the knowledge to know, again, and the big
four-stomach puss talk, why we're basically
extrapolating our knowledge of cattle and sheep
and domestics to these species and And we may be
way, way off base in a lot of areas. Are there many
people now going into a defined exotic bird or
animal practice? Well, birds there are. There's a
tremendous interest in that. There always is. The
student chapters at A&M, for instance, they have a
student chapter of the American Association of
Zoo Veterinarians. And they always have a big
membership. Kids are interested. They all dream
about getting a job in a zoo. The problem is there
are not many jobs out there in zoos. And so I have,
you know, we do preceptorships in my practice and
have for quite some time. And so I get students from
all over the country. I've got a boy from now doing a
preceptorship with us from the University of
Missouri. Is that one year or two years or one year?
Well, they come and spend six to eight weeks with
us. Six to eight weeks. Yes, and either in their
third or fourth year. Yeah. I've got already for
next year, I've got four scheduled for A&M that
have contacted me and want to come and spend it.
Because we do, in my practice, we do see these
exotics and they're interested in learning about
them. There's a lot more than you've ever had.
Yeah, oh yeah. I've had preceptors from Michigan
State, from Auburn University, University of
Florida, Oklahoma, Louisiana State, including
A&M too. And we enjoy having them. It's fun, and
it's challenging for us. And they get to see an
aspect of their practice that they don't in an
average small animal practice. I would think that
whole field is going to explode. Oh, it is. It is.
And the future of it is in-cage birds, because
basically those are the first two reasons. Number
one, birds adapt well. They're a social creature,
and they make good pets. Most other wild animals do
not. Their wild carnivores are not social animals
by nature, and when we put them in a human social
environment, they literally can't cope with it.
And that's the reason they're cute, cuddly,
friendly little animals until they become
sexually mature, and then all of a sudden, they
become a wild animal again, or become
unpredictable and attack. The most dangerous
wild animal is one that's been domestically
raised, because he has no fear of man. The ones that
have a fear, man, as Dubby can tell you, when you're
dealing with one of these animals that's not been
raised around people, it's much easier to deal
with them. In fact, when I was at Southwest
Research, we had a colony of baboons we called
domestic baboons that were purchased from the San
Antonio Zoo. And they had been a closed colony of
baboons for 35 years. And those were the toughest
animals in the world to deal with. They had no fear
of us. The ones we trapped in Africa and brought in
were easy. They just wanted to get away from you.
They wanted to get away from you. They didn't want
to attack you at all. And that's true. That's what
makes difficult in some of these big cats that are
being sold. You know, these things have no fear of
man. And so they're really dangerous when you have
to deal with them on a medical level. That's
very true. I've got a couple of articles I've
written on the declawing. Tom quoted some things
that he and I have both been saying. They're cute
little cuddly things. I have clients that have
lions. He has too. They buy a little cub. They're
cute just like a little kitten. Then they meet
maturity, reach puberty. They change. And then
the people eat too much. They tear up furniture.
They're too aggressive. People don't want them. I
found one. I gave to a circus. You can't tell if
anybody wants them now. They want them naturally.
Well, they always have them declawed, defanged,
neutered. And that doesn't, you know, you can take
an aggressive dog and you can neuter him, and it
generally is a sexual aggression, and 90% of the
time it'll pretty well settle him down. But these
wild animals, it doesn't. Their aggression is not
related to that type of sexual territorial
aggression. It's strictly to their wild
instincts. I've had a lot of people call and want me
to declaw, defange. I said, I will not do it. I don't
believe in it, and I won't do it. I don't care how
much you do it. But somebody's going to do it. Yeah.
But then you can't get rid of them. The people don't
want them. They usually end up having to be put
down. I always say it's another example of man
sitting humanity down. Man controls it all,
unfortunately. Tell me how you got into that
practice. Okay, well, I've always been an
outdoors person. I was very athletic and this and
that and liked outdoors. When I got into it,
school. I got out in 1948 and I knew I didn't want to
go into a ranch practice. It was pretty difficult
to get into a ranch practice the type you wanted. So
I went down. This is A&M, right? Yes, sir. She and I
took state board together in 1948. Second, third,
February. This is a total aside, but my cousin's
over here, Ray Hargis from Louisiana. Did you
happen to know him? that's great i knew no i knew uh
johnny broussard who was johnny was class ahead of
me yeah he went he transferred to auburn alabama
well he graduated from auburn anyway i haven't
found him i haven't found anything i didn't meet
you you know i sound familiar but you're a good
fortune well anyway uh so anyway i went down to my
folks had a little ranch down here south near
charlotte and ascos county i went down there my and
i got a job with a veterans ag school And I was
practicing. It was teaching. It was a program they
had for veterans, like the college program for
boys that are eligible. It was a veterans training
program because you had Harold Shearhart. Yeah.
Her present husband was teaching in it. And I
didn't know what I wanted to do. So I went out and
lived at the ranch. How many of you have? I taught
this veteran school and was piddling around,
running around, and then started trying to
practice. Well, I was just kind of running around.
So let me ask you. When you got out of school, you
were not really sure at all what you were going to
do. I really didn't know what I wanted to do. I knew
what I wanted to do, but I hadn't found my little
niche yet. So a friend was in Mexico on a foot and
mouth disease program. They had a big foot and
mouth disease program in Mexico. And my friend
said, you ought to come down here. You can save
money, make money, have adventures, see Mexico,
and get paid for it. It's a civil service job. So I
got to thinking about it. So I applied and went down
here. It was USDA, Bureau of Animal Industry,
Bureau of Animal Industry, Civil Service job. And
they gave all the veterinarians interpreters,
naturally. We worked, we hopped in horseback,
foot, airplane, muleback, jeep, to go look at
animals that were suspicious of foot and mouth. We
had, the foot and mouth was, Mexico was divided
into districts and sub-districts and areas where
You had inspectors looking at them. So I really got
this. Are you working with Mexican authorities
also? Yeah, the American government naturally
footed the bill on everything, like we always do.
And everybody had a Mexican counterpart. And of
course, the Americans paid for it. And if you name
it, we had it happen. It was quite an experience,
quite an adventure. I've had machetes pulled on
me, guns pulled on me. I've flown in airplanes and
dropped the vaccine on the beach. That's why I say I
have a lot of experience in that. But it was very
interesting and challenging.
Then I... So how long were you down? I was there
three years. Where did you domicile most of the
time? Everybody goes to Mexico City for
indoctrination. You spend a week or so. Then I went
down to Jalisco, Guadalajara, and that area. I
worked out of there in little towns, villages, and
ranches. Then I came back up. worked at Mexico City
in the milk shed, the dairies, the zoo, doing the
vaccinating and inspection around for
suspicious animals. And then I moved around and
they wanted to make an office man out of me in Mexico
City and it would have been an upgrade. I didn't
want it. I said, I want to go back out in the fields.
So I went down, after that, back down between
Mexico City and Chilpancingos, back down to the
real rough country. And I just kind of got really,
Just when you and I kind of got fed up with the
American government running off of good
inspectors. You know, civil service, you had men
that would make good reports, but they really
maybe weren't doing their work out here, but
they'd make good reports. So I just got kind of
tired of it and came on back. Do you want other
veterans, their veterinarian's name around
here, what they were doing? Well, Dr. Hauser, who
is dead now, is a fine gentleman. And Dr. Reese and
them ran the police and veterinary hospital. And I
used to. And Charlie Neal. And Charlie Neal. And I
worked for the city health department. Hauser
said, they have a job. Why don't you take it? You've
got gross pathology. You can tell them maybe. So
when you came back, you got a job with the sanitary
department? Yes. Because I did media inspection,
sanitation work. I didn't really want that. But he
said, do you want to take it? It'll give you a little
gross pathology. And you can tell them it may be
temporary.
So then I got interested. I didn't really like the
environment too much, so I finally got into
practice at the Old Gleason Veterinary Hospital
with Dr. Botar, Dick Botar, who was also deceased.
We had strictly large animal practice. Beef
cattle, dairy cattle, sheep and goat, pigs. There
weren't any exotics at that time. And then...
Boatard wanted to go to Kingsville, so Bernie
James, who was an equine practitioner, and I, but
he bought Boatard's half out. Bernie and I worked
there for a while, and then we built Northwest
Veterinary Hospital on IH-10. We had that for 22
years, strictly large animals.
Mostly, we had a lot of dairies, horses, so forth,
large animals on there. Is Bernie still here? He's
in the Ritama pool. He's still running out of
there? Well, I hadn't seen him for so long. I didn't
know whether when Ritama kind of went under, I
didn't know. So you're still with large animals
all the way through, but the large animal practice
is changing? Oh, it's changing. It's become more
specialized. But also, there's less of it, isn't
there? Well, there's about five or six. Let's see,
Bernie, Richard, Jerry, There's about four or
five veterinarians in this area doing strictly
equine work. Strictly equine. Jake does a lot of
equine. Jake does a lot of equine, but he does make
some dog's head. Yeah. Like most small animals.
The reason why most veterinarians, in my image of
it, is start out, I guess, with mixed practices.
Small animals. Mixed practices. And then it
becomes heavily small animals. Well, it depends
on what they like. It ends up predominantly small
animals. Depends on what they like. That's what
I'm trying to say. It doesn't have anything to do
with the market in particular, but more what the
vet wants. Well, I think most people kind of end up
doing, after you get a little older, I think they
kind of get off and kind of what they enjoy. Well,
Jimmy Rothen now is doing most of the dairy work.
And he's not even here, Tom. He stays up in North
Texas. He's looking for a helper. Yeah, I knew he
was. As far as dairy cattle work, I refer to Erland,
and I refer to another veterinary in the east of
town for most of my cattle work because it's too
hard on my bursitis to do calf delivery stuff
anymore. So it's becoming more specialized, and
it's going to become more specialized. But it's
not because there's less emphasis on large
animals or anything, but it's just that there's
more opportunity in small animals. There's
definitely more opportunity in small animals.
You utilize your time more efficiently.
Everything comes right to you. Large animal work,
you go out, you have a lot more wasted time. And you
have to really like it and really sacrifice some
time to do it. Because there's a lot of wasted time
and waiting and can't catch a cow. Well, you know,
in fact, I always say that I think that at least 50%
of the small animal practitioners
that I know are probably frustrated ranchers and
large animal practitioners. Sure, right.
Because almost about half the guys in town own a
little piece of land somewhere they're running
cattle on. Bubba included, and Dan Hill, and
rather Ted Harwood, Jimmy McMullen, Robbins. But
that's right, exactly what he says. We all, most
people like to get out and like some cattle. But the
nature, the efficiency of the business, the small
animal, you hear everything comes to you. And the
other is inefficient and poor efficiency
actually utilizing your time. But so then while we
were over there, Well, like Tom said, he was going
to the zoo at noon. And Joe Straus called up Bernie
and I. We had done a lot of horse work. And he said,
would you all want to zoo work? We said, we don't
know anybody exotic animals. He said, well, you
can learn like everybody else. So we had a young
veterinarian working for us, Richard Mayes. So we
took it over for practically nothing. We had no
facilities whatsoever. No. Terrible. Nothing.
And then I became interested, because I was an
older one, more interested in wildlife, and
Richard was really not interested. He was
interested in equine only. So then I started going
to the zoo. So I had the zoo for, we had it for nine
years. I did it for eight years. Did send on the zoo.
And while I was there, we built, they built a health
center. We made some progress in veterinary
medicine. Yeah, we, old Fred Stark that used to be
the zoo director, he's, for many, he's dead now,
but he, for many years, he was revered in the
community because he'd been at the zoo since a high
school, high school kid, you know. But he was the
most unscientific he was a good smart old animal
man but he had a lot of experience but he